i'm not impulsive i sit in my basement
and play video games all day this is
nice
you know it's not like hey let's just
have a kid today for fun it's that's not
the kind of
that's not the kind of decision making
you're gonna find here
yeah you don't just randomly change your
raid schedule just for
any rent any rent exactly thank you
let's just work with what we've got
that'll be fun
so let's start off by can all y'all help
me understand um what
what how how should i address each of
you
and what should i call you yeah i i can
be sam
okay first first names
no problem okay you guys can call me
olok too like
or dr k you know whatever people prefer
um
and so uh sam and ben can you all help
me understand a little bit about how you
guys got into streaming
um i'll start because it's your origin
story so
um so way back when i think what 2016
destiny 1 uh had a game mode called
trials of osiris added and i decided to
i had like a channel that i used to use
to watch myself afk farm
uh diablo while i was at work yeah i'd
never watched twitch work but yeah
um but it was it was like the origin of
just the channel existing
never really used it for anything until
trials came out and then
i started streaming to help my friend
brian
uh try and grow his channel i got pretty
lucky
uh not to his benefit but when he went
to college
he moved into a dorm that did not have
uh didn't have good internet so i
benefited from that
by continuing i was like i'm just gonna
keep that our little community that we
grew together uh going i'll continue to
stream on my channel because i was
i already had like a career i worked in
i.t for years and years i went to
college and graduated all that um
and so i i was only streaming just to
help him out
and when he couldn't stream anymore i
continued to
keep things going and it just kind of
grew from there i
i think that i got lucky a bunch of
times in a row to get to where i am now
uh or maybe right place right time and
capitalize on it
and it grew to where it is now
and can do you guys mind if i so just a
couple of ground rules you know anything
that you if i ask a question that y'all
don't feel comfortable answering or is
out of line in any way shape or form
just let me know
but since we are talking about parenting
you know i thought i would ask y'all one
or two questions about y'all's
relationship and maybe how y'all met
is that cool so how did you guys meet
i'll take this one uh i lived in a
duplex in college with four other girls
and on the other side were five other
guys and one of them happened to be
ben's childhood best friend and
he came over to watch a star trek
rift tracks movie i don't remember i
never remember which one it is benjamin
whatever star trek movie
wrath of khan yeah shatner climbs uh you
know el cap in yosemite at the beginning
of it
but i was outside with one of the
neighbor guys trying to help me
fix my car and uh
you know it was just a pos and i was
kicking it and
super upset because i needed to get to
work the next day and ben and the other
guys walk up and they
got my car started so i can go to work
tomorrow and
uh like go clean up come over and and
watch
this movie with us so you can relax okay
come over
throughout the whole entire thing
everybody's talking and then this guy
across the room just keeps like staring
at me
and he keeps trying to be part of this
conversation that i'm in
i'm like who the heck is this guy i
don't know
um and it wasn't until i left
that as i walked past him to leave to go
to
my side of the the building he grabbed
my arm and he's like hey i'm ben
and i was like hi i'm sam okay bye like
just bounce right out of there uh it
wasn't until like a couple weeks after
we you know met that uh
he added me on facebook when it wasn't
weird to add random people on social
media
and we just this was okay yeah this was
before what it was like this is just
2007.
it wasn't weird yet to do that kind of
stuff
and he just we just started talking i
was casually seeing somebody else at the
time
and uh basically you know that guy
screwed up too many times and ben was
there when i was upset he was the first
person i called
crying because this guy stood me up and
uh
he was in the best part is is
he never was pushy about it
like but he also wasn't like complacent
that i was seeing another guy
uh he this movie sounded horrible
i knew that you liked me but it wasn't
like you were trying to put yourself in
between
like you were respectful that i was
seeing somebody else
but you also made sure to make it known
that you really liked me and that you
cared about me and stuff like that and
so
when i was sick of the other guy i was
just like
oh well there's this dude here so he's
really nice and then what we had
our our first date um maybe like a week
or so after we
uh after i was done seeing that guy and
there you go
now it's been what it's been
14 years this summer yep
yeah so can i get ben's version of
events
okay so because i feel like that's
okay well i'm gonna start all the way
but yeah i'll start at the beginning
so i my friend tom and i we were gonna
go over to hang out
and watch uh a rifftrax dub of wrath
khan i was super excited
and when we're we're walking up the
duplex and there's this girl outside
in a blue and white flannel shirt uh
ripped up jeans you know
kind of she she was same age as us but
she was very frustrated with her vehicle
uh and was swearing at it and so we
offered to
uh to help her with it and just like you
know go relax get a long day
take a shower you know get cleaned up
come over and just hang out and
and forget about the problem for a
little while so she did that
um and while we're watching the movie uh
raw conversations i was not staring
across the room i
made glances as one does all right uh
from time to time
and i never got an opportunity to
introduce myself directly so before she
left i said you know what eff it
uh i reached out and i grabbed her arm
and said hey by the way i'm ben and she
said she sam
and she left and that was it it wasn't
weird okay
but it was definitely not pushy it was
one of those like hey she's cute i want
to
i i don't even i didn't get a chance to
like directly interact with her at all
so i figured i might as well give it a
shot and go for it
and um like she said i did find her on
on facebook and edit her and we started
talking a little bit um
do you remember the you're gonna go on a
trip to yosemite
and do you remember what i said to you i
asked you how long before you leave
yes you this is before this is after i
stopped seeing the other guy
and you had said when are you supposed
to go on that trip to yosemite and i
said two weeks and you're like all right
i have two weeks for you to go on a date
with me then
and it worked so here we are yeah the
next day was our date
so that was uh i gotta say ben well
played sir
thank you i appreciate that it's pretty
smooth no because like here's the thing
right so i think a lot of times like
people say like oh nice guys finish
last right but like i think there's this
very tricky tightrope
of like letting your intentions be known
and like not
pretending that nothing is going on and
at the same time like still being
respectful of boundaries
yeah which is like really hard i think a
lot of people like either they
they don't they're not transparent
enough like i i'm you know i'm a favor
i'm in favor of being
transparent um and like if you have you
know if you're attracted to someone or
interested in them and like like i think
like
like solid bro like you know not letting
her like like you know
she's walking out the door taking your
last chance to at least introduce
yourself
not asking for her number no compliments
or anything
just you know because it says a lot but
like it's also like really like it's
super smooth bro
the idea is kind of like i don't there's
nothing to lose at that point you might
as well go for it right
yep but also like but don't go too far
oh yeah there's a line i could have been
like hey so you should stop what you're
doing and hang out and talk with me
right now yes
obviously she was on her way out on the
front porch with me in chat
that was not the goal the goal was just
literally to to try and
plant the seed which i don't know you
could take all sorts of ways because we
have a kid now but
you know what i mean like but to to try
and start some sort of conversation
can we just appreciate for a moment that
ben remembers what she was wearing
i wore that same shirt on our wedding
day too to get to get ready
uh specifically because he very much
that was like his visual and i still
have the shirt to this day
yeah so so let me ask you something ben
like and i i'm
sort of i have a hypothesis here um how
long did it take you to fall in love
with sam
[Laughter]
um probably with an
internally probably not very long i
remember with the first time
do you remember where we were the first
time i said it to you uh we were walking
past the fabric section of hobby lobby
yep and i and i said it and
do you remember whether you said it back
or not because i do don't i don't think
i said it back
right away not initially and that was
fine yeah i've always been the girl that
you know i've i felt like i had to say
it back
in my younger relationships but as i got
older i was like no
like they don't deserve that unless i'm
ready for it right
and i wasn't gonna be i wasn't gonna try
and force her to do or say something
she'd want to say but it would
but like you said transparency is
important so there's no reason for me to
to not be open about how i felt
i think you stopped me and you looked at
me and said it and then i just looked
i looked back at you and just smiled and
i gave you a hug and then we kept
walking to like go by yarn or something
yep sounds about right yeah
yep uh yeah i i you know i'm gonna say
that
i think maybe it was like maybe the
moment you saw her just a tiny bit
so if we think about neuro
scientifically okay i i know i know you
guys have figured out
it may not be true but here's just maybe
i'm drawing from my own experience which
was that i fell
absolutely in love with my wife the
moment i saw her it just took me years
to realize it
and i think it's kind of interesting
because like you know if we look at
memory in the way that memory works
you know you can remember a moment from
a decade ago
and you cannot remember what you had for
lunch two days ago
so temporality has a piece of it right
but actually it's your current emotional
state
that is the closest the the strongest
influence
for what you remember so like how deep a
memory sinks in
depends on the emotional activation
in that moment so it's really
fascinating that you remember so many
details like you guys remember so many
details
like you remember like what the movie
was you remember what the circumstances
were you remember what she was wearing
like
you guys remember so much about just
think about this this is what like
you know a 60-second span 14 years ago
and it's like crystal clear in your mind
which just from like a neuroscience
perspective
implies one of two things either you
guys have talked about it a ton which is
certainly a possibility
or but even then i think it's like
something
there's like a spark something like
something like
you know sunk in and and so anyway
there's a visual memory of ben walking
up to my car with the group of guys
before i even met him
like i have a very split two-second
clip in my brain that maybe i created or
not but
i visually remember i was sitting on the
curb and like even the angles of
everything
on my street and stuff like that yeah
awesome so it sounds like
yeah i um y'all's origin story is
super dope let's put it that way and and
so
can can y'all help me understand a
little bit so you guys it sounds like
y'all started dating
and then uh ben was streaming at that
point
already or no no okay okay i okay so
i didn't actually start until after i
had already graduated from college
and had i had a career i i worked in i.t
for a long time
i was a senior systems engineer at an
insurance company where i live
and by doing all the networking and data
center management virtual machine
deployment i'm a big nerd is what it
comes down to it's like
i.t and computer science that was my
thing that's what i i majored in in
college and
and all that and um we i didn't actually
even start streaming
until this was 20 2017 so i
i well your did i graduate from college
i don't even remember twenty
you graduated in uh 2005.
from high school through that so 2009
and so it was multiple so you started
streaming before i got pregnant though
so that would have been
2014. well that's that's when
no 2017 is when 2016 is when i started
then
the dates are all i literally my the
date is based on an event in a game that
i could go look up i know exactly when
it's like may
the second week of may of 2016 had to be
when i actually first started
well yeah in 2015 though
oh that means wait yeah 2005 it would
have been 2015. look it up this is what
happens when you get this old doing
twitch it's like
everything blends together no this is so
it would have been 14. no you're right
she's right
as i'm sure as usual um yeah
no typically yeah um so so but
you know i just the reason i'm asking
about the the streaming in the
relationship thing is i'm really curious
if you guys sort of
because like here's ben who's got a
career right and then like
streaming is something that's like
recreational hobby like i'm really
curious if if you guys would be okay
with sharing like what that conversation
went like
what the early days of streaming was
like and if you guys sort of had a
conversation about
i'm assuming you don't work in i.t
anymore no
okay no no not anymore and so just you
know how did you guys
as a as a couple kind of like make that
transition and what did those
conversations look like
it actually was pretty easy and this is
largely in part
the fact that she has always been super
accepting of who i am
uh because i used to braid and wow world
warcraft
pretty religiously like five nights a
week five hours a night
after work we would get i'd get home
from work and i'd
we'd have dinner or whatever and then
i'd sit down to raid for the evening and
she would work on her photography stuff
we'd be in the same room but it was a it
was
she's never looked at me and said you
have to stop playing video games because
she's always known that that's
the biggest part of my life the most
important thing as far as like hobbies
go
and so it was it was a no-brainer and
she never
tried to manipulate me or force me she
never gave me an ultimatum quit gaming
and hang out with me you're too old for
that
because she knew she knew who she was
dating right she it wasn't like she was
trying to mold me
into a person that i wasn't it's because
she
accepted who i was and that's who she
loved you were very upfront though
like when we first started dating you're
like maybe it was after about two weeks
of us
kind of seeing each other and you're
like hey by the way
i now that we're seeing each other more
often you might notice that like
i play video games a plot a lot i he was
raiding like he said in world of
warcraft and it wasn't
uh until maybe a few months after he
started dating he actually
changed his raid schedule to start later
in the evening so by the time i would go
home or go to bed
he would start raid and i was just like
well obviously if this is important to
him
i'm not going to take it away because i
don't want to like i like him for who he
is not
for who i want to turn him into and he's
making strides to accommodate me
so why would i be upset that he still
you know plays games and stuff like that
so yeah it we it's always been in our
relationship that in the evenings
we hang out together but like kind of
doing our own thing and then so even now
like in the evening
charlie goes to bed ben goes downstairs
and streams i do my stuff
after he's done streaming we watch a
show and go to bed kind of thing
so so i'd like to revise what i said
earlier about the moment
ben fell in love i think the moment he
fell in love is when he moved his raid
schedule to accommodate his girlfriend
because that's not a sacrifice for years
too
it's such a big sacrifice ben
to if you look at the in the grand
scheme of things
maybe not but i think for me it was yeah
it was a big hobby related thing it was
a part of my life and i
and we decided that it was it was best
for everybody involved nobody else had a
complaint that i was writing with and so
it's like this is the smartest thing to
do right
so so you know sam i i really oh i'm
hearing a lot here
that sounds awesome like this is like i
don't know if you guys are pretending to
be
an awesome couple but y'all um y'all are
doing a lot of the things that i think
the unhappy couples who wind up in my
office don't do
so it sounds like there's like a mutual
kind of respect it also sounds like
there's like accommodations of each
other it sounds like
sam never asked ben to shift his raid
schedule
uh so it's just it's been communication
and transparency is
super helpful we have a rule especially
with
when it comes to streaming and gaming
and stuff like that but
usually for the most part of our
marriage in in our relationship is
we can come to each other and we that
person that we go to with like some kind
of situation so if ben was
streaming too much in the evening and i
wanted to hang out with him i
in pre-agreement with each other can go
up to him and be like i've
not seen you enough we need to figure
something out
and in that first conversation the other
person cannot come back defensive
until we figure out what's going on it
doesn't always work
sure but we we know going into that
conversation
that that you just you have to put it
out there and then
not like knowing that you're not going
to get attacked or anything right away
there might be an argument in a later
conversation that gets drawn out
for whatever uh but that initial one
that's always been something for us
especially when it comes to
streaming and because it's his job now
but with gaming before
um i'm sure what led you to changing
your schedule is us having a
conversation about how
like we were trying to find a night to
hang out and it just didn't work for
a week because when we first started
dating we were only seeing each other
maybe two times a week because we were
both busy
with school and work and you were
raiding and all that kind of stuff
so we we settled down that fairly early
for most parts of our relationship is
we just just put it out there kind of
thing yeah
i i'm hearing not just put it out there
but also that
the pers like so the person who puts it
out there
the person who's receiving it also
listens
first as opposed to defending attacking
you know like like i think that's a
really important part that like if we
try
right yeah i'm not trying to put this
front then we're perfect but at least we
um and that seems really important you
know i gotta say sam i'm i'm a little
bit
surprised um and so i'd love to ask you
one or two more questions because like
you know i i i wrapped up college um
you know uh uh a year or two after it
sounds like ben started so i think we're
all
you know in the same decade in terms of
age and so i i would still be shocked
like i still remember i went on like one
or two dates with this girl
and then i told her i was like hey like
warcraft 3 frozen throne is coming out
and i'm gonna be like
m.i.a for two weeks and then you know i
never went out with her again
because she was like i don't know what
this
is and and so she's as far as i can tell
is a completely
normal woman um and and so i'm i'm
really surprised because i can't imagine
many people like in the mid 2000s like
having a boyfriend who was playing wow
for five hours a night five days a week
like i think it's rare for people to be
okay with that
is that fair i mean it wasn't a common
thing
and and a lot of people look at you know
look at gaming like it's a waste of time
and stuff
um but to be honest like i was an only
child until i was 10 and even then my
brother
was born with physical mental
disabilities so it wasn't like i had a
sibling or anything
until later on in life with step
siblings so i'm totally
fine spending time by myself
um i like i enjoy spending time with
people
but even then ben and i have joked about
it that if we were like a regular couple
where we spent
every single night seven nights a week
together we would probably
you know end up getting annoyed with
each other after a long
a long time so when when he was just
like hey i do this stuff and i was like
oh cool it's on a schedule
okay well you know i i ran a
corporate portrait studio around that
time and i was like
i'll just change my schedule to kind of
line up with yours if i can
and call it a day so i do my thing and
you do your thing and then we don't have
to worry about trying to figure out when
we can hang out with each other
so sounds really awesome yeah the
funny part though is like i was a super
outdoorsy
hippie kind of person so
uh we were definitely like i played
video games growing up but we definitely
were learning
from each other kind of different
different hobbies and stuff so
that's awesome and so it sounds like
when you were
when you were ready to become a
full-time streamer like i'm assuming
that things sort of gradually picked up
and it was sort of like a stable shift
or was it really like kind of rolling
the dice um
i i would say it was pretty stable a
gradual increase until fortnight
happened
and then everything kind of exploded in
a way that
kind of nobody expected i mean there's
no way you could go into it and be like
oh yeah one day
fortnite's gonna come out and my
career's gonna skyrocket and i'm gonna
yeah i met tyler ninja and we became
friends and during pub g before fortnite
even happened and
a bunch of people like it was wild it
was an unprecedented kind of thing and
actually that's where
around that times when she took a a
larger role
on the on the the business side of stuff
for me because
before fortnight um
like my business email wasn't really
inundated with a lot of stuff
and then fortnite happened popularity
absolutely skyrocketed
uh and suddenly i was getting like waves
of emails
and requests to do things and and you
know
ad opportunities all sorts of stuff and
i needed somebody i i can't i couldn't
sit there and check my email
the whole time so i that's where she
stepped into the role of being the
manager for my job
um so i i don't even really look at my
work email too much
uh she does a lot of it and then we also
have a management team on
on the back end that takes care of a lot
of the coordination for
contractual stuff all that but i it it
was in the span of i would say like
six months where it went from a pretty
easily
manageable thing for one person and then
it exploded and i needed to back up
real quick and she stepped up to the
plate uh without missing a beat
wow yeah it's i don't know if you guys
could tell from my
you know when i added y'all as friends
or when i messaged you and i was like i
was a little bit confused
it's because i'm like matt and i don't
understand what's happening
i just i just was like maybe this is the
wrong one that i added yeah no i was
like oh this is
wonderful nice to meet you and i was
like a little bit concerned
and then i was also like oh okay baby
and so i'm i'm the same way and it's
you know it's interesting because um in
my case it sort of happened almost
slightly in reverse so i was running
healthy gamer for about a year and no
one had heard of us
and then my wife took over and now
people have heard of us
hooray and and and so
it's really interesting to hear like how
do you guys kind of manage
i mean i i don't even know how i would
go about answering that question if
someone asked it to me
any um you know i was just curious
what's what's the experience been like
working together
um it is there
you have to separate benjamin and
samantha
from dr lupo and mrs dr lupo that the
relationships almost have to be
different relationships because we'll
even we'll even
uh remind the other person when we're
about to talk about something for like
streaming or whatever it is like by the
way this is between me and my manager
not husband and wife right now and
that's the we have to set the
like the tone for the conversation so
otherwise things i think can get kind of
muddied if you're
there are certain business opportunities
like hey you have a whole crap ton of
viewers today you should probably keep
streaming for like another half hour or
hour past when you would normally end
and the wife side would say no you know
we have a schedule for reason come
upstairs
but then the manager side is like yeah
you don't get this opportunity very very
often so it's
it is uh it's a balancing act of what is
of you know what which conversation
you're having either the business side
or the non-business side
and sometimes we have to start the
conversation or even mid-conversation we
have to stop and be like who are you
talking to right now yeah
cause cause i might be coming to him as
sam and he might be coming to me as dr
lupo
and you can tell real quick in the
conversation that
we're not talking to the same person so
we have to be like wait
which hat are we both putting on because
we both need to be in the same mindset
for it
yeah so i'm noticing that there's
there's some pretty clear boundary
setting in terms of like
you know what is this a business
conversation or a personal conversation
definitely um yeah i sometimes joke
about this is
you know i think part of the the fun is
that this is the one situation
where potentially sexual harassment
between employees is
acceptable
good thing hr's never seen any stuff
we've done to each other okay i mean i
am hr so
[Laughter]
so you know uh
but so and and what
yeah i i i'm gonna just ask a couple
more questions is that cool
yeah so like how did you guys decide um
to have children
or a kid sounds like you'll have one
correct
you want to start
how do we decide i can i can at least
set the precedent
out of the gate i'm going to be honest i
i know that i'm i play video games all
day
i'm a man child uh you know there's only
a certain amount of
external focus that my brain has the
capacity to give out and so i
i initially didn't want to i just
i didn't i didn't want kids uh to start
with and then
i think things started to change when i
was exposed more and more to
because she was a photographer so she
would work with like babies to take
pictures and stuff like that and being
shown those things
um changed my opinion because it's it's
kind of incredible what a little human
being can learn to do and now that we
have
charlie i'm like it's it's like watching
a cloned version of me slowly grow up
and
and being able to see the see him
experiencing things like mario
and and all the games that i loved when
i was little when i was hit his age
watching someone else see those things
and experiencing them for the first time
is i mean it's a pretty typical
stereotypical parent thing to do but i'm
living vicariously
through him seeing those things for the
first time it's
absolutely amazing i've always wanted to
be
a parent a mom uh like i said before my
brother was born
with mental physical disabilities when i
was 10 and around 12 my mom kind of went
m.i.a for a few years
so i was the mom for about 12 to 14
ish and um she
you know she's back she's great
everything's all good
uh but i i just always knew
after taking care of my brother that i
wanted to be a mom even at 12 i was good
at it
and my mom uh did a daycare growing up
and then once i got into photography i
mean a lot of those kids
i was just talking about this a couple
days ago my oldest or my longest running
client
is now 16 and i met her when she was one
um and so it's just it's
watching all those kids grow up and it's
just something that i've always wanted
to do
and i know i never wanted a big family
like one
maybe two if someone really pushed me i
i think it's important to explain
some of the other reasoning behind that
with your brother
yeah so i am potentially a carrier of my
brother's uh genetic mental disorder
and um we we don't have know like
the exact name that he has because back
then the testing was not there and
available
now i don't want to just go poke and
prod him just so i can figure it out or
not
so we tried with charlie and charlie's
good and golden and uh so we got we got
lucky with that
um and so i never wanted a large family
because there's always still that
possibility that
i can pass on if we have another son but
um yeah do you remember uh how you told
me that you were ready to have kids
no i don't you're at least not looking
at my head
oh god you
and this is this is one way that we used
to communicate to each other um
is is you know one of us we weren't
living
together for obviously a beginning of
our relationship but
uh there was some nights like if
something was really on our minds
we would just write it all out in an
email and send it to the other person
and be like oh yeah
i just sent you an email so before yeah
before i get absolutely ridiculed for
this for
for eternity okay it was one of the it
was the way that we
we decided was like best for just
sometimes it's easier to get your
thoughts out if you have time to write
them down and stare at them for a little
bit
and and consider the correct phrasing
and then we send it along right
instead of like a face-to-face
conversation sometimes especially about
something like that where even
internally i'm like i don't know what
the right thing to do is what the right
right thing to say is you you can
muddy the waters real quick if you
misspeak and then you have to backpedal
and and blah blah you know so i so
before i get
people go in on me over this yeah i
wrote an email because it was the right
i remember now because it was the
easiest way to write out my thoughts and
then look at my own thoughts and see if
that's like it's like
is that what i really mean to say or is
there a better way to phrase it so that
it makes sense or even if that is is
that the way that you actually feel
or is that something that you're just
kind of feeling like you have to feel
kind of think too yeah i i think thanks
for clarifying that because oddly enough
that's actually something i recommend
to my patients is that you know a lot of
times if we think about the most
important communications there are two
things that we can never get back
one is time that's passed and the second
is the words that leave our mouth
and and so it's kind of interesting
because if you really have something
super important you know when you said
wrote you an email i mean i was
imagining a
one-liner which is like okay let's have
kids
okay thanks mike i mean there were some
that were like that
but between us but yeah it was the
children go go go go go go go
and then you know so so but what i what
i'm hearing is it's it's not really so
much an email as it was like a letter
yeah right just in electronic format
yeah that it was
you thought about it a lot you expressed
a lot um
i'm still a little bit surprised to be
honest ben
because i can't imagine that looking at
pictures of babies and this is probably
me just projecting because it's just
my experience is like oh it wasn't just
looking at pictures it was like
it so she did her photography uh
when we got married one of the things
that i did is take on a job that i
didn't necessarily want to provide
enough money so that she could leave
her she quit her studio job so she could
start her own business
that was one of the things that we did
um but that i did because
she had worked her butt off when i
didn't have a job and
and trying to get to a stable place and
so when
when i had the opportunity to give back
i did that
but she ran her business out of our
house and so
i got to see in person these little tiny
snuggly you know human loaves of bread
is what they basically boil down to
when they're when they're that young and
and that was one of the big things for
me that
helped that that i would say i mean
helped it's everybody's
ultimately the path you take and whether
you have kids or not is is going to be
individual for each person right my
path isn't going to be different than
somebody else's but i definitely was one
that was like i don't want
to to have kids and i started to see the
seed babies
in person in a way that i hadn't before
because she's so good with kids man
she working with kids through
photography studio and like
it's wild some of the stuff that that i
have learned from watching her work
that it opened up a different side of of
an infant to me that i didn't really
expect right because
before before seeing that my exposure to
them was so limited because i'm the
youngest of four
in my family so i never there were never
any babies around and all i knew was
like
that it's just gonna cry a lot it's
gonna poop i'm gonna have to clean it up
and then and and feed it and then
hopefully it's still not upset about
something
but then she kind of she changed my
opinion
on on pretty much all of it as a whole
because yeah there's
there's that stuff and as a parent you
end up with like poop on your
fingernails in a way you wouldn't expect
right when you change your diapers and
all that but but when you actually get
to hold
it's it if you have kids you know what
i'm talking about it's it's almost an
indescribable thing
to see your you know your your offspring
slowly turn into a human being that can
do things it's crazy
yeah absolutely so i'm guessing that sam
uh ben you knew that sam wanted to have
kids
um i knew yeah and had you guys
had you all talked about it before was
it sort of like because when you said
like i
i'm ready so you you send off the email
but like
was the assumption that sam was already
ready
or wanted to have kids before that so
you were sort of like
you know i know i think i really like
and
yeah i don't think i ever felt like it
was a waiting for me kind of thing i
think it was more like
a waiting for us to come to a mutual
agreement
kind of thing because i think she she
knew that
i was not interested and i knew that she
was interested
and it eventually we
found our way to a mutual agreement and
it was just not like she forced me
or strong handed me and to be like give
me your seed
it just eventually like i i decided
on my own that having a kid was the
right idea
there were definitely lots of
conversations and stuff leading up
to that letter being sent um yeah there
were there were situations where
you just flat out said that you would
never change your mind and uh
and obviously that was something that i
had to sit and really think about if
that's something that i'm
okay with you know not being a mom and
so it taken a few years i mean
what we got pregnant five years
after charlie or after we got married so
uh
so we never really rushed into anything
with it and i was totally okay being an
older
parent as well um so i had charlie when
i was 30
when all my friends were having them
when having their kids like when they
were 23
24 and stuff like that and i was totally
fine
with waiting if that's just what it took
um
so it wasn't just like i knew from day
one and then
and then i was just like okay but it was
conversations that definitely led up to
that letter being sent and then even
then we still had plenty of
conversations
after that letter of like
okay but now that now that i heard your
side and you know my side let's like
push them together and make sure 100
that we're on the same page before we
dive into this
forever long thing okay you want to
actually
how about now because this is also very
telling about the
about where we are now when we have
conversations about kids
because she so so she
made the one for us and did 99.9
of the work and now i've god
you're gonna do the second one well
please
if only uh no i i have kind of changed
gears to where i wouldn't be upset if we
had another kid
and i would not be upset having another
kid either but it's not coming out of me
yeah that's that's one of the
stipulations but i i definitely never
saw myself as someone who was like yeah
i could
i could have a second one um and i think
that it definitely helps seeing like
we went to we went over to my mom's
house for mother's day uh
this weekend and i saw other family
members there and my one of my
older brothers has three and their
youngest
is adorable and uh she's
not a year yet almost one almost one but
like they're they're typically pretty
timid about interactions and she came
here and read and like climbed up on me
and gave me a hug and i about melted
into a puddle
it was it it's just it's such a cool
experience
that i never thought i would i would be
like yeah i'm on board let's go again
i'm i'm ready uh so you know
ben and sam i've been sort of thinking
at the be since the beginning of this
conversation if there's some way that i
can be helpful
um so when y'all came on today i i was
really thinking that what y'all share is
not really necessarily for your benefit
it's actually for like
other people's benefit you know to share
like a lot of interesting things about
you know relationships relationships
with streamers
relationships with people in gaming you
know how do you kind of adapt how do you
decide to have kids how do you raise
kids all that good stuff
but i'm wondering uh but for most people
that come on i'm
trying to help them with something right
and and i'm just curious whether
um there's something that i could be
helpful with here in terms of just
facilitating it sounds like you guys are
really solid communicators
um uh but you know is this something
that
it should i ask y'all questions about
this and and maybe we can try to have a
conversation about it or
whatever you think is going to be best
i'm fine yeah well i mean i don't know
about about you benjamin but you and i
have
these conversation it's like with you
know you're
first dating somebody and you're laying
in bed at night and you're like i wonder
what our life in the future would be
like and you start thinking about all
that kind of stuff and that's kind of
like the stage
where i feel like we both
are it's just like you you know i wonder
what a little girl version of us
would look like but at the same time i'm
like but it's not again it's not i'm not
doing that again
yeah oh yeah i i think ultimately it's
mostly hyperbole of us
just just yeah it's just saying it to
say it because
i i mean the way we are right now i
don't know if we could fit
having another kid into you know the the
power trio that we currently have just
be given the circumstances and how busy
i am and how much she works behind the
scenes for us and
taking care of boy all day and that kind
of thing so it it's
in this situation i think it's more of
just like a kind of a joking poking fun
at each other
yes which is the thing that we do a lot
it's i think
one of my you know how we have do we
have conversations about love languages
i always tell her that one of my
my main love languages is sarcasm uh
because we messed with each other a lot
behind the scenes um but it's just part
of the i think part of the dynamic
and this is another one of those things
because i know that i know that she
doesn't want to
grow another child uh and so i will
sometimes if like if we're
about to go to bed i'll tease her and
put my hand on her stomach and tell her
that i can feel
the baby kicking and [ __ ] like that like
we i poke fun of her a lot
i won't say we i i'll say me i do it a
lot uh can i
can i push y'all sure want to be pushed
are you going
so like i'm wondering whether um ben is
doing his equivalent of grabbing your
arm on the way out
right so what i'm what i'm noticing is
that ben is respecting
your boundary in terms of
sam saying like i'm okay with having
another kid theoretically it's just not
coming out of me
and and yet ben is also like i wouldn't
mind having another one
right so we've had this conversation
about i'm totally
100 down with adopting yep um and that
is something that benjamin has
expressed that he is not a hundred
percent sure if that's where
he sits comfortable with
um so sam can i do you mind if i ask a
couple of questions about
um you know your
because i so easy to skirt
to move into [ __ ] territory here but
um
so so i do please do go ahead i'm just
noticing that i
i think you know when when ben says
something like
and i feel sort of comfortable pushing
this because you guys clearly do have
such a strong marriage you clearly do
communicate really well
and so it's kind of hard because like
you guys do 90 of what i teach
so now like in terms of what i'm trying
to think about like can i help y'all in
some way i think it's maybe actually
like asking hard questions and bringing
things to the surface
um so sam can you help me understand
uh you know how you came to the decision
that you did not want to grow another
human being
um i just did okay
so when i imagine what i imagined
pregnancy before i
got pregnant is basically the chest
burster
from from alien
uh and uh so anytime that anybody's like
pregnant and they want me to touch their
belly and stuff like that
i know it freaks me out i really did not
enjoy a single
like long stretch of pregnancy there was
little sprinkles on that there of like
cool and everything but deep i don't
bend if you remember the first time that
charlie moved to my stomach and we sat
there and watched it
i was like shaking freaking out because
watching something move underneath your
skin is terrifying
all of a sudden you're like oh there's
his elbow
um so on top of i had a really bad first
trimester um i
have the whole thing potentially you
know passing on what my brother has in
the back of my mind on top of it
uh i just wasn't super comfortable
mentally with you know having something
growing inside of me and i don't know if
that's something that i can
get over i also since charlie was born
i've contracted chronic lyme disease
um and so i'm already at the point of
being as tired as somebody can be
without passing out
um i can't imagine adding in pregnancy
tiredness
on top of that uh and i didn't enjoy
the birth i didn't enjoy the afterwards
there's a reason why there's a chemical
in women's brains that make you forget
birthing because nobody would do that a
second time if they really
thought about it yeah unless like they
had the easiest pregnancies ever
kind of thing so that's where i am
what region of the you guys are in the
yep we yeah we're in nebraska
interesting you guys get a lot of lyme
disease up there
um being in uh
being a photographer you spend a ton of
time out in the fields
ah deer ticks yep um so i
i specifically remember when i found a
tick on me
uh and it wasn't until a few months
after that
and you know years later all the timing
lined up i go to see a doctor and
uh after almost man uh
six months or so testing of stuff she
just told me i'd left over part of
a flu and a year and a half after that
didn't go away and found a new doctor
got diagnosed and there we go i'm sorry
that
you're having to deal with that it's
actually one of the most frustrating
things to deal with that i've seen
medically
it is very frustrating but you know i've
always
had lots of you know ups and downs in my
life that
you i'm okay with the negative stuff
happening because it always ends up
leading me to where i currently am in my
life
so yeah so so sam you know that makes
perfect sense
in terms of pregnancy is is
statistically the most dangerous thing
that the average woman ever does um
in terms of disability mortality
it is it is like literally it's it's the
most dangerous part
of your life statistically um
you know and and and so obviously if it
you know if it felt awful like i'm kind
of with you in terms i mean as much as i
can be
in terms of you know recognizing that my
wife
she decided to go through it twice um
but
you know i think as you guys i'm sure
you all understand it's a very
individual decision just like having
charlie was like a really individual
decision it's not even like
couple like even within a couple so
there's like individual
individuality within a couple and then
the the timing of when you decide to
have a child and stuff like that i mean
there's so much individuality there
the one thing sam that i'm just a little
bit concerned about
and this is where you know you can swat
the societies
sometimes when i'm working with people
who have a fear
the fear tends to manifest in
a very irrefutable way so like for
example like i've worked with people who
have had
um you know one special needs child or
like
first and then decided to have a second
one or people who have had
one healthy child and then discover that
there is a like a genetic risk
it's a really challenging thing it's
kind of bizarre but um
you know i'm just wondering whether
a part of your mind and this is where i
feel like i'm going into [ __ ]
territory but i'm just going gonna be
transparent
whether a part of your mind because of
that fear of what could happen
is like pointing to things that clearly
like no one can blame you for
right so like does that make sense yeah
what do you think about that
um i know that i'm a person that
dwells on fears benjamin can attest to
that
a lot uh that um
i want to say that i let fear control
my life but there's definitely certain
types of fears that
i have a hard time you know facing and
letting go of
snakes and uh
because they don't let go of you yeah
you're you're not helping
you're not helping bad experience in
kindergarten okay like with a big one
um so i don't know i mean
if if if ben came to me
in in the the same seriousness as
writing that letter and said
i would love to have a second child with
you and i would love for it to be
between just me and you
then it would be a okay let's sit down
let's figure out
what we can do to make things better for
me
you know if we can ahead of time now
that we know now that we know
potentially how i react to pregnancy and
stuff like that
um but as far as like
having a second child added to our
family
i'm 100 on board when we get to that
serious point of conversation
of sure let's have a second child
but it again then
you're not next to me management but i'm
staring at you if you ever came to me
and you're just like
yes if if we have a second child and i
want one it
it i would love for it to be between me
and you only then
yeah i'm not gonna be like no definitely
not
but in this moment where i feel like we
aren't
we're more on like the hypothetical it
would be cool
joking kind of situation of having a
child then yeah i'm going to stay on my
ground about
not wanting to to birth another child
i want to be clear too i it's not
like with the with the having one that
is biologically bold of ours versus
adoption i have no issue with adoption i
think adoption is wonderful i think it's
an amazing thing that you
you can find people that choose to love
someone as their own and versus there
are some biological relationships
obviously that are not great that the
you have abuse of parents and stuff like
that so adoption is like
adoption is one of the most beautiful
things i think that
we as as human beings have decided to do
i just i just it's not like a like a
approval or disapproval for me it's more
of a
i just haven't spent the time to think
about if that's the way that i would
want to go
get if we ever got to the point where we
want a second
we kid oh no no no i'm not
stumped i'm quite the opposite i'm just
trying to figure out how far i want to
go
so this is probably further than we've
had as a conversation on the serious
side of things about this
ever sam can you tell me what growing up
was like with your younger brother
um sometimes i wish he wasn't there
just because my parents divorced right
after he was born
mom bounced is really difficult
uh he was in and out of hospitals for
his first five years
uh do with surgeries and stuff like that
and then his mental health or
mental disability on top of it
but i love him to death i told my
parents the first week that he was born
that
when they can't take care of him that i
will and i've stuck to that
and i'm getting all teary because i love
my brother so much
um i've broken up relationships with
people that couldn't handle him
um ben charged in
head first with my brother and
uh and has agreed from day one of
meeting him
that he will one day be our
responsibility
um yeah this i mean obviously it's
difficult when you're when your
sibling's 10 years apart but then on top
of it
you know a parent is gone you're going
through your own
change as a preteen and you know
then you have a baby to take care of too
obviously that's rough
so i'm just gonna go for it so
um i'm gonna talk now
okay i'm gonna use words like imagine
so like here's what i'm thinking if i
put myself in your shoes sam
you know like you said you love your
brother a lot and it can be kind of
confusing because you can love him
and you can also like sort of
you can have thoughts that you wish he
was never there right
and and you can see like what he did i
mean unclear whether
he's i don't think he split up your
parents but you know
it's it's an additional stress so a lot
of times what happens is when a special
needs child enters a family
it just exposes the weaknesses that are
already there
right it's an additional pressure um it
sounds like you really stepped up
in an amazing way between the ages of 12
and 14 and i would guess that
you don't regret that for a second and
it sucked
and and so you know i i'm kind of
hearing the same thing
about pregnancy is that i'm sure you
don't
regret it but it was awful
and you would never want to do it again
makes perfect sense right not even
having been pregnant
i can completely get behind you there
and at the same time i wonder if if you
know as someone who does sort of have
fears kind of like hang out in the back
of your mind
um i mean you have to
i guess i don't i shouldn't say that but
i i can't imagine a world in which you
haven't had a thought
about like what you're signing your son
up for if you do have
a second biological child what you're
signing like whether you're essentially
repeating history
and like what are you signing charlie up
for
and what kind of pressure is it gonna
put on you guys
and whether that sort of holds you back
i feel like ben and i are
stronger than my parents were my parents
um
from the age of about six until i was
about 12
would be separated back together
and you know i feel like my brother was
probably kind of that one last ditch
effort which obviously
very rarely works to save a marriage um
and uh so yeah they lived apart they
my dad lived in the basement they were
back together and everything was fine
and a year later
my mom would move out this time and so
on and so forth so
definitely for sure my brother was the
breaking point of them realizing that
it just isn't working yeah
and and do you ever think about what it
would mean for charlie if you guys oh
my camera just oh there we go do you
ever think about what it would mean for
charlie if you guys did have a
special needs child yeah for sure um
it it it would suck especially because
he's younger
i mean at 10 i was able to kind of grasp
the idea of what my future was going to
be like
um but let's say i get pregnant next
month
and so he'll be six by the time a baby
gets here
and you won't especially my brother's
disability
we don't know if we didn't notice it
earlier because we were more focused on
the physical disability than the mental
but we didn't know about my brother's
mental disability until he was about a
year and a half old
um because he was already so delayed
with his physical disability we just
kind of
attributed everything to that until all
of a sudden we realized that
he's not talking um
so yeah i mean of course i i
worry that that it would make
charlie's life harder and it's obviously
already hard as
an only child to have a sibling come in
sometimes at the beginning
um and i and i just think
that not that my brother has like a bad
life
at all uh but if there
there's other kids out there that are
already here
and already have a potentially
you know not so great life because
they're in the adoption system or
phosphorous system whatever
i feel like i could at least
save them maybe um
kind of thing so yeah i'm sort of
hearing like uh
you know having a biological child comes
with particular
risks and because i sam i know it sounds
kind of weird but
you know i know pregnancy is sort of
very uncomfortable and stuff but just
hearing you getting to know you a little
bit like i find it hard to believe that
and this may be me being an [ __ ] like
i think you've demonstrated so much
strength so much resilience
that i just find myself i don't know why
maybe this means i'm mean
or something but like i find myself
being a little bit surprised that that's
what would hold you back like physical
discomfort like hold you back
you know maybe i don't know you that
well but you know
i don't know i mean especially if we
have a girl like if we have a girl then
we're golden
because women don't only pass this
disorder on to their sons
very rarely do they does it show up in a
female
yeah but even then like as soon as we
found out that we were having a boy
uh both ben and i are anxiety like we
were excited but our anxiety went up and
we're like oh okay
well i mean now what how do we do we
need to start doing research what kind
of and we did the extra tests and stuff
like that beforehand
to make sure things were good but just
the anxiety of going up to that
appointment and finding out if we were
having a boy or a girl for both of us
if i remember correctly was very high we
were very excited
you know super stoked talking about the
whole week up but walking in there that
was kind of like our moment of
do we need to
do we need to potentially change and
learn a lot of stuff
in this very moment or are we going to
be okay if we have a girl
kind of thing so it sounds like you guys
were aware that there was a risk of this
when you had your first kid
correct yep and and how did you
how did you guys manage that
yeah lots of anxiety
i think it was around six months with
charlie that we that
it was very obvious that there there was
you know
nothing present uh and
even i remember after charlie was born
there was a couple times that
that ben had pulled me aside and he was
just like do you
recognize anything in charlie that that
you remember from your brother
uh just you know every randomly every
few months or whatever leading up until
we we realized that you know
we're we're good to go um
so a lot of anxiety
yeah that that makes a lot of sense
you know and and ben um can
am i have i stepped out of line yet no
i'll yell at you if you do don't worry
yeah i'm i'm just i'm not kidding i'm
relying on you to do that okay
this is stuff that she's openly talked
about with other people and that we've
talked about like
so with with her brother um
one of the things that early in our
relationship that i wanted to establish
and like
it we wrote our own vows for our wedding
and i included
in there that that her brother i keep
i'm trying to avoid saying
names just in case i'm sure but i i made
sure that she knew that i was going to
be supportive for her brother and
provide if if it came time to provide
somewhere for him to live i was
there ready to go um but like we i've
done a bunch of charity stuff with my
channel
and the first two charity streams we
ever did were for the national fragile x
foundation which is similar fragile x's
of what her brother has or something
similar to it it was just
it was such an important thing for me to
make sure that she understood because
obviously it was like such a main piece
of her life growing up it was a focus
around potentially why her parents split
up and and it was one of the
the most difficult times for her life
having to raise her brother and
like that's important to her and she's
important to me so i wanted to make sure
that
she knew that i was on board no matter
what ended up happening whether we had
to you know take her brother on as part
of our life
uh eventually whether it was earlier or
later that i was
there ready to go wow
and what you're saying sam makes a ton
of sense so can i just
share what i kind of heard from you and
i'm going to inject a little bit of my
own
um i'm going to fill in some of the gaps
in my mind so let me know if those are
like
you know could be completely off so like
i i can't imagine i mean you guys
didn't really know right like y'all
rolled the dice once
and you guys hit the jackpot with
charlie like in every way
very much and i can imagine that like
you know rolling the dice once was
bad enough and if you guys like win
right like if i bought gme at 50 cents
and it rose to 300 and i decided to sell
you know and i like like and then gme
like bob's down again like i don't even
know if i want to get back on that
roller coaster
you know i won once it's clearly enough
for me to retire on
right like you know it sounds like y'all
are happy and you guys have an amazing
son
and there's a part that's like why even
bother
and then there's also like this sort of
like two birds with one stone thing
right because
there are kids out there who don't have
such a good life
and you know if you guys decide that you
guys have the bandwidth for another kid
you can sort of like give a child who
doesn't have a promising life
like what sounds to me to be unless you
guys are really just super sociopathic
and i miss something completely
a loving home right with like two
parents who like really care about their
their child a lot their children a lot
two parents who communicate a lot
to parents who strive really hard to be
good parents
and there's already a kid out there who
doesn't have that
so you know why go back you know
why go back to the gambling table when
you know there's there's a kid out there
who may need your love and already
exists
um how is that for a summary
i would say you can hear the vacuum
cleaner our cleaning companies just
finishing up
um i mean for me that that's 100
percent like especially with um there's
been a few times
in taking photos and stuff like that
that i've had to call cps
because you know you a kid isn't smiling
and their dad takes him into the
bathroom and you can hear him
hitting the child like sorry that
flashback
um i'm having to call the cops on them
and making a huge scene
but got the kid out of there
um there's kids that are already hurting
i want to be able to help him
[Laughter]
but i'm also totally fine being three
musketeers too
he is a handful sometimes let's not
pretend that he did
i think every kid because he's a little
clone of me uh
let's remember that the three musketeers
had dartanian right
right nobody really remembered
yeah true true if there's if there's
ever
an analogy that says that you guys
should adopt it's the three musketeers
that reference is basically like there's
the three of us
and then there's a rando from the
outside that we're bringing in
it's like that
[Music]
you know younger different
you know and it's also interesting
because what i'm hearing from
if you really think about it like ben
has
it seems like a lot of ben's inspiration
to have a child actually came from a
child that wasn't his own right like
i remember still just for myself like
being
really uninterested in children
like when i was doing pediatrics and
stuff in ob gyn
like those were probably my two least
favorite rotations in medical school
and like with kids i just didn't you
know i didn't really get them like i was
good with kids
but i just had no you know i didn't
think they were particularly cute i
thought they were and then like once i
had a kid it's like some switch flipped
in my brain
and and i i know personally at least
like you know my my wife and i
routinely talk about like you know when
we'll see like an you know we visited a
friend
yesterday and they have a young kid and
just holding like you guys know the
denseness of a baby
yeah how like th you know they stay the
same weight but they just
stretch out and so like feeling that
denseness it's one of the things that i
really like you know it's just a
physical sensation that's associated
with a lot of good emotion for me just
like holding
like a baby and then we'll do it
sometimes and then like we had this
brief con
not even a conversation it was like one
exchange it was like
do you want to have another one i was
like nope i'm good and then she's like
yep
me too i i think going through it
twice i mean there are times where we
lose our minds a little bit and we think
about it but
i think we're set i think there's every
parent there's certain nights where
you crash into bed at the end of the
night and you look at each other you're
like why the hell did we decide to do
this in the first place yeah
yeah yeah
yeah so it sounds like um
hmm yeah i i'm it feels to me like this
is tied up a little bit i i don't
how do y'all feel about that i think
that's true
i mean this is one of those things that
we've talked about at least semi
regularly over the last
multiple years of being together of like
what direction do we are we going to go
if we ever go one way or another
and it's i especially with how busy busy
we are right now
because i never do you can't imagine
that this is going to be your job like i
never
i i i especially because the beginning i
got into streaming as like a side thing
right it was never really intended to be
my full-time gig and then suddenly here
we are
uh i i think it's something that we've
had a pin in just
just kind of sitting aside for a while
and it doesn't really surprise me if
if this is the way it continues to go
for a while too
jump into anything like oh yeah yeah we
tend to be pretty practical when it
comes to doing most things in our life
i'm not impulsive i sit in my basement
and play video games all day this is
nice
you know it's not like hey let's just
have a kid today for fun it's that's not
the kind of
that's not the kind of decision making
you're gonna find here yeah you don't
just
randomly change your raid schedule just
for any random
any random exactly thank you you have to
align the 39 other people
and shift them two hours into the future
now i before anybody goes after that one
that was
this was like a i need to change what
i'm doing just so everybody knows and
then
people jumped on board with that it
wasn't like you change or go aft
yourself
kind of thing so i was i i try not to
pressure people to do stuff they don't
want to do
um i'm sure that you know interacting
with the wow guild
quite so intensely actually probably
actually helped you in your marriage to
be honest because i i find that there's
a lot of communication that has to
happen in
a successful wow killed i think it got
me ready to
to be a father too because the amount of
parenting you feel like you have to do
something yeah absolutely the amount of
yelling that would come out of
that room when you were raiding
sometimes especially when you became
raid leader because you didn't start out
as a raid leader you you eventually came
into being like the full guild
leader and stuff like that too like the
amount of yelling
all the memes that came out of that
there was a lot of parenting practice
yeah
he's adopted many an orphan over the
yeah exactly
um one thing that i do want to say sam
just you know this isn't something we
have to get into now but
um or i would actually recommend against
it but
something that i just sort of like want
to mention to you is
i've worked with a lot of people with
chronic lyme and um
you know we're not entirely sure what
chronic lyme is do you guys want to
explain just for the audience like if
you feel comfort i mean you guys
have already mentioned it but can you
explain uh to people like what your
understanding of what chronic lyme is
um as far as like how it feels and stuff
or
just what is it uh basically it
tick bites you and uh then
you never remember scientific words but
basically
you become sick with the what's inside
the tick uh
you can usually treat it right away with
antibiotics and most people are good to
go but if it's caught later it kind of
spreads
and hides throughout your body and
um you can either like just blast
yourself with antibiotics non-stop
and try and see if you can catch it all
or you with the doctor that i will go
with we are just now kind of treating
the symptoms
um symptoms are different for everybody
which makes it very difficult
to diagnose it's also just very
difficult to diagnose in the first place
for uh the type of illness that it is
and um and who knows maybe maybe my
doctor
diagnosed me incorrectly too but uh for
me
it's a lot of joint and muscle pain
um and a lot of fatigue uh
before i got on my medication which
kind of helps me a little bit but i was
taking anywhere between
three to five naps a day going between
30 minutes to two hours
um and and the thick of it and now
i usually need to take one 30 to
40 minute nap a day if i don't get it
then i just
become really cranky um but
uh if i if i try to think back to
what tired was to me because my first
doctor just told me i was tired because
i had a kid
um and if i think back to like
the tiredness that i feel right now and
it's been four hours since i took my
medicine this morning uh
i could go to sleep and sleep for a
whole night's worth of rest
right now wow and be 100
okay with that uh but i can't like i
can't you know sleep all day long
so i just pushed through it the the one
thing i would
say sam so it's kind of weird but i'd
say probably like historically five
percent of people in my practice have
had chronic lyme
and and um i do a lot of work that's
sort of like in complementary and
alternative medicine
and what i've actually found is that
there's some weird immune stuff
i don't really know what's going on with
chronic lyme and they have they'll have
their lyme doctors
but i have seen a lot of like clinical
improvement through
some like things like psychotherapy now
a lot of people will think that if
psychotherapy
helps chronic lyme does that mean that
it's all in your head i really don't
think so
because like you're saying there there
are physical symptoms that are
not really psychological right it's like
very clearly something
physical is going on but we do know for
example that meditation
improves like immune markers and things
like rheumatoid arthritis
in lupus other autoimmune or electronic
like
immune or infectious states um and
and so i don't know exactly how this
works but just having you know talk to
you for a little bit there's like
there's actually a lot of emotion like
right under the surface that i think you
carry with you
um you kind of mentioned that you know
fears
they don't rent in your mind they buy
and they pay mortgages
and and so interestingly enough like i
i've seen some benefit from that and i
was just gonna say it may be something
that you wanna like you could think
about just in terms of like
if i tend to think about the body as
like a body and mind as a unit right
and if you're holding on if your mind is
trying to process or holding on to like
negative emotion
it just doesn't quite have the ram to
deal with
you know the physical stuff like you
can't do both if you think about
you know stress and pregnancy like you
just can't you could be stressed out or
you can be pregnant you can't be both
because that's like all
your your body and your mind can handle
yeah
just something to think about that you
know i've seen a lot of people find
some benefit doesn't mean that it's
psychological and origin i really don't
think it is
but um you know just letting go because
i can imagine you also feel like guilty
for having some of those thoughts that
you had about your brother in the past
because you do love him so much and
and like i found that you know their way
you know you you can let those you can
you can evict those fears if you
you know you try um
if you're lucky and if you give it a
shot so just something to think about
i hope that wasn't out of line no
definitely i definitely felt like a lot
of relief
uh i've done yoga on and off in
meditation on and off throughout my life
but
in the past four years i've definitely
like really dug into it
and sometimes like that's all i need is
just like 10-15 minutes to just go
if i get overwhelmed because i'm so
tired of things i just need to
step away and you know zen for a minute
yeah absolutely um so i i noticed that
we were supposed to talk about parenting
today
and i don't think we quite
got there how do y'all feel about that
if this is the way you want it to go
then that's i mean that's fine with me
it i think this is an opportunity for
you to ask away if there's anything
uh related to how where what we do and
with charlie and all that i mean now's
the time right
uh sure i mean how how do y'all feel i
mean this is
what i'm i've always been open to
talking about
feelings like i've never found it useful
to
you know hide feelings or or anything
like that so talking about all the all
that with
pregnancy and everything and babies and
cool like i think it's definitely
something afterwards that ben and i will
sit down and kind of probably go over
like the
the notes version of of everything
together so
ben do you do you want to talk about
charlie
i could talk about charlie all day
yeah so let's just i'm i'm a little bit
curious maybe we can just kind of get
like a short version but like
so uh if you don't mind me you know
don't share any information that
yeah isn't but like ballpark of how old
he is
uh he's five and a half is [ __ ] enough
okay
um and so what's it like you know being
just
being a streamer running a streaming
business and
having a kid he
is um the smartest
little human being i think i've ever met
and that ends up being really really
good he
he's reading it like first second grade
level already um
he's working on math stuff he can
articulate himself really well
he speaks clearly uh he
the other side of that though is like he
is wildly inquisitive
about everything so sometimes so i'm in
my my studio right now and sam will
bring me
coffee or lunch or whatever because i
obviously with streaming you have to be
engaged with your chat the entire time
or
doing something they don't like you just
sitting there doing nothing um
and so he'll come down with her but it's
like a
10 minute process of him going through
every little shiny because i got a lot
of toys in this room it's like this is
i don't blame him at all it's like a
shiny lights freaking playground
the of of all sorts of stuff to look at
and mess with that he's never messed
with before because just it sits down
here
but that spreads to so many other
aspects of our
conversation our engagement with him is
like
questioning of everything and i know
that's part of like being five
and trying to get a handle
of the social back and forth like at
that age obviously he doesn't
he doesn't know all social cues he
doesn't know yeah when is
appropriate or not appropriate to talk
he doesn't know about
like we're working on raising our hand
uh right now to get
to get a question in or like hey mommy
hey daddy i have something to say
but he's he's so he's almost like smart
to a
to a point of frustration for me because
he's a lot like me and that it's like a
i want to absorb all the knowledge that
i possibly can
even for him if it's that if it's like
to a point of
inconvenience for someone else he's like
now is the time to answer this question
mommy or daddy let's let's talk about
whatever this thing is that i want to
know about
yeah it's interesting um you know you're
you talk about his intelligence as a
double-edged sword almost
oh yeah i mean almost i i know that i
shouldn't look at it like that because i
would
i no you absolutely should you think so
absolutely so i had a supervisor who
blew my mind
one day so like i think we see this a
lot in
in you know the gaming community she
once told me something that
she said that a gifted child is actually
a special needs child
because if you really think about it
they actually have needs that the
average
child may not have right and when we
think about special needs we tend to
think about it sort of like in a in a
negative capacity in terms of like
inability to do things
but i mean i've seen this time and time
and time again with like you know
i was sort of this way where like i was
smart you know growing up
and i was kind of like a little bit
precocious and
and like i struggled a lot kind of
because of that
and and we see this a lot with sort of
like these burnt out like gifted kids
right like you're gifted and that comes
with a whole
pile of stuff like expectations
capabilities
frustration um some of the worst
situations that i've ever seen or when
you have a kid who's like very gifted
and has a high iq but also has something
like bad adhd or bad anxiety and then
they can feel like really really
stupid right they can feel a lot of
shame and stuff like that so
i i think that you know it's kind of
interesting because
i would absolutely you know
view almost everything about your kid as
a double-edged sword
um and that any capability can be like
healthy in one circumstance and also
like creates its own challenges and
needs in another
but i'm sure you guys know that yeah
it it first came like really stuck in my
head that
that he is you know everybody says that
their kid is the cutest and the smartest
and stuff like that so
this is mom bragging right now that the
first hit
when we were going to the library and he
started asking about chapter books at
five years old
and now he he doesn't read you know like
the regular
small print chapter books but he has the
early reader books of like eight
chapters or so
and he reads it all in the night and
he's just like all right where's the
next one and i was like okay
like i liked reading when i was a kid
but not like this
he just wants to absorb all the
knowledge we're
watch so many youtube videos about how
to fix flat tires
because he wants to just know how to fix
flat he's obsessed with flat tires so he
wants to know just in case
we somebody gets a flat tire he wants to
be the one to be able to help people
fix the flat tire he wants what's that
that youtube guy that he
he was watching what was that what's the
what's the youtube channel that he was
watching chris
chris fix this dude does like pov uh
of like fixing car parts and stuff like
that
and it's like he could he could watch it
for an entire day and know all about
this stuff in the inside of a car i'm
like
he's gonna know more about cars than i
do it in like
you give him a week he'll have it down
pat yeah
i mean i'm kind of i'm kind of wondering
whether he was like watching
when he saw his dad come to his mom's
rescue
when her car wasn't working
he just has such lofty goals for being a
kid he wants to be
uh an engineer and a scientist we just
learned about what a roboticist is so
now he wants to be a roboticist and he
wants to make robots
that uh the robot he wants to make
for saint jude because you do a lot of
work for saint jude so he's very aware
of of what goes on there
is he wants to make a robot that if a
kid doesn't want to go to their
appointment the robot will go pick up
the kid
and bring him into their appointment
it's great
my my older kid is somewhere between
wanting to be a
princess an artist
and a doctor the younger kid is trying
to decide
whether what kind of demon she wants to
be
i want to be her when i grow up because
like when they're playing pretend like
one of them is like
i'm a princess or a queen the other
one's like i'm a monster
[Laughter]
it's interesting they're they're very
different um
yeah so in any any kind of like uh
you know it sounds like charlie's an
amazing kid it sounds like you guys are
kind of treating him
um you know you're not using a standard
playbook i think you guys are kind of
develop like writing the playbook as you
go i'm really hearing that from y'all is
that fair to say
yeah i think so and anything um
you know anything that you would say to
you know streamers or people kind of
thinking about having kids in terms of
like
how to make it work well right because
most streamers i mean like i i know you
know ben
and i and and we're not going to comment
on sam's age because i'm sure he's
very young because she's older that's
ridiculous
i don't believe it um
you know so i've walked the tightrope as
well my friend
you know um but i think streamers you
know are getting older i think we work
with a fair number of streamers that are
you know concerned about like how to
find like a healthy relationship
and or thinking about having kids and
stuff like that i mean
what would you say to people who are
sort of like on the fence or
trying to figure out how to do it um
i think that everybody's journey is
going to end up being different it's
going to be a personal thing
that leads them one way or another in
fact
if anything there's a strong parallel
between being a parent and being a
streamer and that their people can write
people can give advice and write all
sorts of books about how to do it and
how to make it and how to raise your kid
and all that but there are so many
different
one-off scenarios instances of every
single person
every kid every stream being different
like
you almost you you can gather so much
information
and it's still not going to give you the
right answer and so having
have being able to like roll with the
punches is probably the most important
thing
for me that's that looking at it looking
back at it now it's like
as charlie has developed as a kid and as
my career has
grown and changed over time it's like
what what
what works one day might not work the
next day and you just got to be okay
with that and figure out what the next
thing is going to be
to continue to grow in the right way
well set same anything you want to add
to that i would definitely say that
there's
never a good time to have a kid
like you know everyone's just like you
know we're going to wait until we have
this and we do this and we do that and
yada yada
you're never going to find an
opportunity where you're like
everything's lined up perfectly let's
have a child now kind of thing
uh and that and also
kind of adding on to ben is that you
need to be okay with
things constantly changing um and
especially with like parents that want
to stream and they start out kind of
just like
part-time but they love it and they want
to do it so much that they want to go
full-time that they don't really
kind of think too much of the back end
like they think that they're going to
make enough money
and then they end up struggling and it
ends up
you know harming their family because
they can't pay their bills or whatever
and then
the parents mental health is low so then
they start getting more frustrated and
then they take it out on their kids
without really realizing it and stuff
and um
i think especially with being a parent
first and then going into streaming
you really need to not put your dreams
aside
not saying that because you can do all
the things you want to as a parent and
stuff too
uh but definitely keeping
the whole family in mind
you gotta have a plan yeah well yeah
when you have a backup plan we had a
backup plan
i mean when ben started and he jumped
from uh
working in his corporate job to working
in
in streaming only we had a backup plan
that if he
went below a certain number within the
first six months he was going to get a
part-time job somewhere to supplement it
when i jumped from my corporate studio
job to starting my own business we made
an agreement that i would have a
three-year part-time job
uh just to make sure that i could
supplement uh
with everything in the day i hit three
years at that part-time job i bounced
um and thankfully for ben it only went
up from there for him but
we we made a plan and we put a timeline
on it and it's not just uh
if we can't afford food then i'll do
this it's like
you know if you're gonna do this have
steps of where you
feel like you can be in what is
plausible and feasible for your family
yeah i beautifully put i mean i think
i'm really hearing you guys
sort of say like you know planning for
eventualities and planning contingencies
like
you know it's fine to chase your dreams
but do so in a practical manner
i think too often we kind of think about
oh like you know like i mean we do a lot
of work with parents and kids
um but these are kids that you know
maybe have a video game addiction
or i think really the primary problem is
communication but
and you know the kid will will come to
the parent will say like oh
you know i want to go pro and then like
they feel like their parent is not
supportive
and and and sometimes they're not
supportive but
i think there's just a very practical
you know you got to plan for it i know
we were the same way so when when i was
starting healthy gamer i sort of scaled
back on my day job but i would i would
literally work like nights and weekends
to like support the family
um and and you know that's just sort of
like what we had to do because we had to
make ends meet
um and and so you kind of got to do what
you got to do if it's working part-time
on the side for three years and then
bouncing and then like i still remember
like you know quitting from my nights
and weekends job because that was like
time away from my family that
that was a high price to pay but you
know we felt like
it was the right thing to do and it
feels good for us is
we always remember that everything is a
season
like with when ben was working
basically full-time at his corporate job
and full-time streaming on nights and
weekends
we knew that in order for it to be
possible
that's just what it needed to be and it
wasn't gonna be forever
because we were both gonna put our heads
down and work our asses off to make it
work
and and then it was and then it got to a
point where you know he was able to
to just do one thing and then he had
more time again so
awesome yeah i i
thank you guys so much for kind of
sharing some of your perspectives some
of your experience
um you know i know i've asked you for
permission a thousand times whether i
push too hard
i'm glad you guys um you know feel like
i didn't overstep i
i think it was you know i think it's an
important conversation to have
it's really fascinating to hear how you
guys have gotten to where you
are sounds like y'all are just uh maybe
not
just getting started but in the mid game
you know because you all have been
together now for 14 years
i'm saying that's still just getting
started no no
no no please say we're at least halfway
through the movie right yeah no i think
i think it's squarely in the mid game
like most people that we interview on
stream or like in the early game you
guys sound like you're in the mid game
um you know where it's like y'all are
high level now you've got some decent
items you know you're like
you're level 45 or maybe like a 55
approaching end game content and
that's where you guys are you know
you're not like hanging around in
azeroth
it's it's don't trash talk azeroth man i
got a lot of good memories here okay
i'm only just thinking of gloomhaven now
that he's okay
yeah if you're looking for a punishing
tabletop game that's a good one
do you guys like board games yeah
does charlie like board games yes yeah
we have a we have two shelves of kids
family board games and two shelves of
adult board games
any recommendations for five-year-olds
oh gosh
um is red light green light red light
green light's a great one
so good it's so fun and ian what's the
squirrel one
uh sneaky snacky squirrel is that one
um i'm trying to think uh charlie loves
the ticket to ride juniors
we liked monopoly junior uh was a good
one as well
um he loves any of the card games like
old maid and
crazy eights uh man that kid is good at
crazy eights he
beats he wins routinely yeah i refuse to
play connect four with him because he
beats me all the time
last kind of random question how do
y'all feel about arranged marriage
contracts
[Laughter]
hello i'm kidding
it's coming up
because i'm okay with introducing my son
to somebody and letting them decide
we could have a conversation i'll get my
lawyer involved
fantastic
no it sounds like he's a wonderful kid
uh yeah i i think um
you know there's uh i started playing
gif one game that my five and a half
year old really likes which is loot
you guys heard of this i don't think i
have no so
so it's it's i i mean i think charlie
will be fine for it so i think it's
actually for like eight-year-olds or
ten-year-olds or whatever but you know
if you just playing connect four and
stuff
um it's a cool game and and
you know i'll send you guys like a link
or whatever but it's like you get you
know
i think you all will like it um
but yeah i think thank you guys very
much for coming on from my perspective i
i you know i i feel like we're at a kind
of decent stopping point
uh but i want to give you all a chance
to ask questions if you guys have
questions for me or or you know anything
that you feel like we should talk about
more
samantha kind of think
i don't think i have any other questions
i know i i think it's been
a long time since either of us had an
opportunity to just talk to somebody
about our relationship and being
especially being a parent which is crazy
to think that he's
literally almost six and i've never
really had a chance to sit down with
somebody
and say hey here's my thoughts on what
it's like being a parent so i
i guess i appreciate the opportunity to
talk about it because it is
it's kind of relieving especially like
talking about how smart he is and how
frustrating it can be
and and what it's like being a parent to
a kid that's that age that wants to
absorb
all the knowledge but also seems to just
not listen to you sometimes
flat out told us that he hears us every
time he just
chooses not to answer
it's such a little [ __ ] sometimes when
it comes to that but it's but like
that's just
i think it's part of rolling with those
punches and figuring out how to work
with that
without ripping all your hair out you
know
um you know ben one kind of quick
response to that as i feel like i
actually haven't given you the
opportunity to really have
that conversation in depth for which i
apologize because i think we've talked a
lot more about y'all's relationship
and if you know if there's some way that
i can be helpful to you down the road
um one thing that just as a random aside
like one thing that i've come to
appreciate is that
my kids have a different ayurvedic dosha
which i don't know if you guys have ever
heard about this but
in traditional indian medicine they do a
lot of like
cognitive fingerprinting would be the
best way that i would put it
so you know each person is different but
depending on their like cognitive nature
so for example
uh sam has a tendency to hold on to
things
right like it's neither good nor bad i
mean it's just she has the capacity to
hold on
so she holds on to things that will make
her more resilient
and she will hold on to negative
feelings the same way
um and and so there there are some
things that i've really found that are
like really have been helpful for
raising my kids once i sort of
understand what their cognitive
fingerprint is
like the your child is intelligent and
defiant
right he's gonna do things his way and
and like so how do you like sort of
recognizing that
there are certain attributes so like
like in in ayurveda it sounds like he
actually is a
vata peter which means that his primary
like cognitive elements are wind and
fire
so he picks things up quickly he gets
kind of focused on them
so he's kind of like fire like he'll
burn in a straight line if he needs to
but then he'll also kind of change
direction
i'm not getting the sense that he does
hold on to things
i would also say that like i know this
sounds weird because i've never seen
your kid before but i'd say that he has
ben's nose probably doesn't have the
roundness
of sam's face
um he's my cheeks he has these oh he
does have okay so yeah
he has ben's fate i gave him my eyes and
cheeks and that's it
yeah so there are a lot of interesting
things so it turns out the genetics
actually correlate between physical
characteristics so if you look at people
who have a wind type mind
that that if you take a thousand people
with wind type minds
and a thousand people with fire type
minds and you look at their genetic
alleles
that the thousand people with wind type
minds actually have
share common genes and that uh
fire type mines share common genes as
well because it sounds like
uh charlie is a lot like my younger
daughter um
in terms of just temperament and how
quickly she picks up
how quickly he picks up things and stuff
like that and so i'm just
i'm kind of thinking you know we didn't
really get a chance to talk about it too
much and i'm not sure exactly what to do
about that at this point but
maybe you know if you guys have other
questions or whatever or
you'll ever want to come back on and
actually talk about charlie and what
it's
like you know because i kind of steered
things towards y'all as opposed to him
um just want to toss that out there i
i think i would be down for something
like that yeah because it is one of
those
i we we've gone along on this journey
kind of just the two of
us with the expertise we have in the
back end especially
samantha way more than myself with the
experience with kids because of her
previous jobs and her experience with
her brother
uh knows a lot more about what working
with kids is like compared to
my experience is basically just boy and
that's it um
but it's it's definitely an experience
that i think
has been it's been 99
positive and there's also that that
portion that small bit that's like
man i just want to rip my damn hair out
sometimes because it's like
it like she said uh he he openly admits
that he hears us and sometimes just
ignores and you know that gift for the
guy talking to the brick wall
i've i feel that sometimes that's like
it's that feels like what it's like
yeah so so when dealing with
vata pit the children so like remember
that they're like water
the harder you come at them the more
they're gonna feel like concrete
yep right whereas like if you're kind of
smooth and gen i'm sure you guys have
figured this out already but like if
you're kind of smooth and gentle like
he'll listen but he may not respond to
commands and then there's a whole thing
about boundary setting and
you know it sounds like you guys do a
pretty good job of that but anyway
it's it sounds like he's a wonderful kid
but i do think that you know he's gonna
be challenging if he's not already
um but he's starting to show that
head-on yeah it's yeah
anyway so thank you guys for coming on
let me just think a little bit about
maybe like how to follow up with y'all
about you know potentially
you know follow up whether it's on
stream or whatever or maybe i can just
recommend a book if you guys are curious
or something
because i think especially about the fit
the children are like they're
they're challenging right because he's
flighty like he doesn't always pay
attention and sometimes when he does he
chooses not to listen
so part of it is attentional and then a
part of it is defiance it's just he's
just gonna do what he wants when he
wants to
and um and it's challenging because he's
like
you know when he when he points in the
right direction it's amazing
when you guys are all on the same page
it's great
right true
so thank you all so much for coming on
uh anything that we can do to help you
before we kind of wrap up for today
good benjamin i think i'm good baby all
right well
um do you guys want to learn to meditate
i mean it sounds like sam has some
experience
sometimes we'll teach people at the end
of stream if they're interested in
learning
it's up to you benjamin since i i
after this is done i'm going back to
apex for a couple more hours so i think
meditation
and a fast-paced br don't necessarily
line up yet
but i mean something like that
especially for me
we didn't get a whole lot into into my
side of things we talked about a lot
about samantha which is totally fine uh
her story is honestly way more elaborate
uh
and and interesting than mine my my life
as a kid growing up was
was so vanilla it would make your head
spin
um yes i think it's something that in
the future i'll be down to talk about
sure of course um well good luck with
apex thank you
and uh yeah thank you guys so much for
coming on
you know i really appreciate you all
sharing this part of your life um
you know i i i've heard uh ben you know
i know you
i get the impression at least from what
i hear on twitter and whatnot
that you do a pretty good job about
setting a boundary around your personal
life and your streamer life
right like there's ben and there's dr
lupo
yeah yeah so i'm i i particularly
appreciate that you're willing to kind
of cross that boundary for
our sake and to try to educate people um
so far we really haven't had
a single case of knock on wood
having bad fallout from coming on stream
but if something like that
does happen you know please let us know
cool um
and good luck to you guys and and i hope
you school some noobs
thanks dr k i appreciate it man sam
enjoy your nap
yes i will get a little one before i
head right back into work
okay sounds terrible have a nice day
appreciate it oh my god
so much work chat
well we hope that you know he wrecks
some noobs